=head1 NAME

B<dhcping-ng> - send a DHCP request directly to network interface and see responses
from dhcp-servers in your lan.


=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dhcping-ng>
[B<-i> I<network interface>]
[B<-w> I<waittime between packets>]
[B<-v> I<verbose mode>]
[B<-u> I<force unicast dhcp replay>]
[B<-c> I<send count packets>]
[B<-r> I<use random ethernet address>]
[B<-x> I<client IP address >]
[B<-h> I<client hardware address >]
[B<-s> I<server IP address >]
[B<-z> I<server hardware address >]
=head1 DESCRIPTION

This commands allows the system administrator to send dhcp request packets , 
directly to network interface and see reponses from dhcp-servers. 
It can be used for detecting rogue dhcp-server in switched lan networks.

Options are :

=over

=item B<-i>
Network interface to use 

=item B<-w>
Wait N seconds between sending packets , when wait time is 0 we are sending packet 
as fast as we can and we don't care about answers.


=item B<-v>

Verbose, mode 

=item B<-u>

Force unicast dhcp replay. Don't set BROADCAST bit in dhcp flags . 
Seting broadcast bit in DHCPDISCOVER packet will force server to replay to server via unicast replay, mostly
use for broken clients that can't recive unicast answer and have chicken and egg problem ;>

=item B<-c> 

How many dhcp-request we want to send, can't be zero

=item B<-r>
Use random mac-adress in ethernet and dhcp headers . 

=item B<-x> 
Request this IP address. Note that this is also the IP address the answer will be sent to. When parameter 
is omited , IP from sending interface is used ( empty -x option can be used as last option)

=item B<-h> 
Use this hardware-address in the DHCP request, and Ethernet header.

=item B<-s> 
Send the DHCP packet to this IP address, It needs also server mac-address '-z' option. 

=item B<-z> 
Use this hardware-address as destination addres in Ethernet header. 

=head1 AUTHOR

Piotr Chytla <pch@packetconsulting.pl>

=head1 SEE ALSO

dhcpd(8), dhcping(8)
